---
layout: post
title: My Goals as a Web Developer
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---

_Programming and web development has always fascinated me long before I even thought of becoming one._ My background is in engineering hardware. I was a technical instructor for a semiconductor instrument manufacturer. We provided technical training for our engineers who installs and service our very complex cutting edge machines. And I was fortunate enough to be able to work with our software engineers during the early phase of our tool development. Yes, they work very hard and we always blame them when we can't figure out what is going on. They do a lot of preliminary and simulation testing and we provide them with the real production type testing.  

_So, what does it take to become a proficient and well rounded web developer?_

__Learn the basics:__
I think first of all you need to learn the basics of programming. We often forget how we learn Algebra and Trigonometry. We first had to to learn add and subtract then multiply and divide. Then we started doing orders of operation and other mathematical operators. Then it was time to do simple expressions and equations.
Whenever I'm confronted with a difficult problem or something that is hard to understand. I would back track a little bit. It may take a little more time now but I think in the end you will actually benefit from the extra effort you put in.

__Teach others:__
I've been fortunate enough to have been an instructor in the pass and one of the most rewarding thing about it is the satisfaction of seeing your students flourish and become better at what they do. So, you help others and you're also helping yourself. Teaching is one of the best ways to learn and understand something. If you can teach it you know that you know it. And if you don't you're going to get better by teaching it. This is a win-win goal!

__Manage your time better:__
Time is gold! It's precious. Once it over it's done. Developers need to manage their time very wisely and of coarse so does any other professions. Lots of books have been written about time management. I'm just going to mention a few tips and suggestions here. One way to manage your time is to prioritize your work. Start with the most important task and probably the hardest also. If you get stuck on a problem you should try very hard to solve it but realize how important this problem is. You need to learn to either ask for help or put it aside for a while and do something else then come back later. The key here is to know how important is this task then you'll know how much time you should spend on it. Minimize breaks and socializing time when you're working. You just need to be aware of time when taking a break or chitchatting with your neighbors.   

__Provide user satisfaction:__
Users are our customers so I think this is paramount. If your users are happy they'll most likely to want your product.
I'm going to list a few important factors to remember in obtaining customer satisfaction:
  - Make sure the app works for all your target users; test it for all the different scenarios you could face.
  - Make sure it is pleasing to the eye.
  - Make it easy or simple to use.


__Self-Expression:__
This kind of overlaps the above a little. As a web developer you want to design your web pages to be cosmetically pleasing and simple to use and at the same time you also want to show your creativity. Your work needs to be able to stand out in front of others or at least side to side if you wnat to be a successful developer.
